<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>RDF-star &ndash; 06 May 2022</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>RDF-star</h1>
<h2>06 May 2022</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://w3c.github.io/rdf-star/Minutes/2022-04-08.html"><img alt="Previous meeting." title="Previous meeting" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/go-previous.png"></a>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-star/2022May/0000.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/05/06-rdf-star-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
<a href="https://w3c.github.io/rdf-star/Minutes/2022-05-20.html"><img alt="Next meeting." title="Next meeting" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/go-next.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>Doerthe, Dominik_T, gkellogg, olaf, Pierre-Antoine, TallTed</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>AndyS</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>Pierre-Antoine</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>olaf, Pierre-Antoine</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Announcements and newcomers</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Open actions</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">WG chartering</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Announcements and newcomers</h3>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> new bot on the IRC<br>
<span id=x029>… ghurlbot</span><br>
<span id=x030>… should write of title github issues that are mentioned</span><br>
<span id=x031>… Different topic: tried &quot;Matrix&quot; as an alternative to IRC</span></p>
<p id=x033 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio&gt;</cite> hello</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Open actions</h3>
<p id=x037 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aaction">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star/<wbr>issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aaction</a></p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> still archived open items</p>
<p id=x041 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues/247">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star/<wbr>issues/<wbr>247</a></p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> about publishing the final report<br>
<span id=x045>… still on it</span><br>
<span id=x046>… but not working to have danbri push the publish button</span></p>
<p id=x049 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> ghurlbot, discussing w3c/rdf-star</p>
<p id=x050 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> TallTed, OK</p>
<p id=x051 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> #247</p>
<p id=x052 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues/247">Issue 247 ping DanBri about publishing the final report on the CG page (pchampin), action</a></p>
<p id=x053 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> :-)</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s02"><cite>gkellogg:</cite> danbri may still wait for opposition against the chartering</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> suprised that there was no discussion on the SemWeb mailing list in response to the email there, about one month ago</p>
<p id=x057 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aaction">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter/<wbr>issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aaction</a></p>
<p id=x058 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> ghurlbot, discussing w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter</p>
<p id=x059 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Pierre-Antoine, OK</p>
<p id=x060 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> #29</p>
<p id=x061 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/29">Issue 29 Add Ora Lassila as one of the expected chair (pchampin), action</a></p>
<p id=x062 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> PR to explicitly add Ora as a possible chair</p>
<p id=x064 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> #27</p>
<p id=x065 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/27">Issue 27 Add text to clearly state that existing RDF 1.1 data will remain valid in syntax and semantics. (pchampin), action</a></p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> while Ora agreed during the last call, the PR is still pending, waiting for Ora's approval</p>
<p id=x068 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> next PR, for issue 27<br>
<span id=x069>… no, oops, the PR still needs to be created</span></p>
<p id=x070 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> &gt; The group should ensure that any RDF 1.1 data remains valid in this new version. Furthermore, any RDF or RDFS entailment drawn under RDF 1.1 semantics should also remain valid in this new version.</p>
<p id=x071 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> it is actually merged</p>
<p id=x072 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> that was PR #31</p>
<p id=x073 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/31">Pull Request 31 [closed] make it explicit that the group will aim for backward compatibility (pchampin)</a></p>
<p id=x074 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> #25</p>
<p id=x075 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/25">Issue 25 WG timeline ? (pchampin), action</a></p>
<p id=x076 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> addressed by #33</p>
<p id=x077 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/33">Pull Request 33 set timeline to 24 months, as resolved for #25 (pchampin)</a></p>
<p id=x079 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> PR about proposing timeline<br>
<span id=x080>… editors have approved this PR already</span></p>
<p id=x081 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> #28</p>
<p id=x082 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/28">Issue 28 add an explicit rationale about the choice of documents to include (pchampin), action</a></p>
<p id=x083 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> but it will be left open until begin of next week, in case someone else still wants to chime in</p>
<p id=x084 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> PR #32</p>
<p id=x085 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/32">Pull Request 32 explain the rationale behing the list of specifications (pchampin)</a></p>
<p id=x086 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> PR about issue 28, editors have approved that one as well; will be left open until next Monday</p>
<p id=x088 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> #26</p>
<p id=x089 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/26">Issue 26 Request expressions of support (pchampin), action</a></p>
<p id=x092 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> and merged then (unless discussion emerges)<br>
<span id=x093>… To address issue 26, email was sent to the SemWeb mailing list.</span><br>
<span id=x094>… some expressions of support have come in already</span></p>
<p id=x095 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/labels/expression_of_support">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter/<wbr>labels/<wbr>expression_of_support</a></p>
<p id=x096 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> currently five</p>
<p id=x100 class="phone s03"><cite>olaf:</cite> KRBD works on the Ontop system. I found out that they published something about R2RML-star</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>WG chartering</h3>
<p id=x105 class="phone s04"><cite>TallTed:</cite> suggestion to create labels for expressions of dissent<br>
<span id=x106>… and neutrality</span></p>
<p id=x107 class="phone s02"><cite>gkellogg:</cite> yes some more neutral naming of the tag / type of issue</p>
<p id=x110 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> we decided on &quot;expression of support&quot; because that's what had been done<br>
<span id=x111>… for the RCH WG</span></p>
<p id=x113 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> &quot;opinion about WG ratification&quot; { &quot;neutral about WG ratification&quot;, &quot;supports WG ratification&quot;, &quot;opposes WG ratification&quot;}</p>
<p id=x119 class="phone s03"><cite>olaf:</cite> I would propose to add another template<br>
<span id=x120>… makes it easier to filter</span><br>
<span id=x121>… &quot;expression_of_opposition&quot; ?</span></p>
<p id=x123 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> or { expression_of_support, expression_of_opposition, expression_of_neutrality }</p>
<p id=x124 class="phone s04"><cite>TallTed:</cite> no strong opinion, just to address danbri's concern</p>
<p id=x126 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: add symmetric label + issue template with 'expression_of_opposition'</p>
<p id=x127 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> +0.5</p>
<p id=x128 class=irc><cite>&lt;gkellogg&gt;</cite> +0.5</p>
<p id=x129 class=irc><cite>&lt;olaf&gt;</cite> +0.75</p>
<p id=x130 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x131 class=irc><cite>&lt;Dominik_T&gt;</cite> +0.5</p>
<p id=x132 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x133 class=irc><cite>&lt;Doerthe&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>Resolution:</strong> add symmetric label + issue template with 'expression_of_opposition'</p>
<p id=x146 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> charter in good shape (modulo the pending PRs)<br>
<span id=x147>… want to push it one step further</span><br>
<span id=x148>… the advisory committee has been informed one month ago</span><br>
<span id=x149>… next, ask opinion from W3C management (?)</span><br>
<span id=x150>… W3C meets every Wednesday</span><br>
<span id=x151>… could put that one their next agenda</span><br>
<span id=x152>… what is blocking still is the lack of chairs</span><br>
<span id=x153>… it is generally possible to have only one chair, but not advisable</span><br>
<span id=x154>… so, it is urgent to find someone else</span></p>
<p id=x155 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> Roles have different concerns: chair shepherds group process; editors shepherd/edit the documents.</p>
<p id=x156 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> is anyone here interested?</p>
<p id=x157 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio&gt;</cite> you do not want me, but I am available for low-level menial jobs, if I may be useful somehow</p>
<p id=x158 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> Olaf?</p>
<p id=x164 class="phone s03"><cite>olaf:</cite> I have already too little time, and this would be very time consuming<br>
<span id=x165>… also, I (partily) affiliated with Amazon, like Ora, which might not look good</span></p>
<p id=x168 class="phone s02"><cite>gkellogg:</cite> Is it necessary for us to have identified chairs now?<br>
<span id=x169>… maybe the second chair may be identified later</span></p>
<p id=x176 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> for the vote by the advisory committee there needs to be a well-defined team<br>
<span id=x177>… not having identified all chairs may send a bad signal to the AC</span><br>
<span id=x178>… have chairs from industry is better for the AC</span><br>
<span id=x179>… on the other hand, having no chair from academy may be problematic because academics may not want to join</span><br>
<span id=x180>… there may also be more than two chairs</span><br>
<span id=x181>… with Ora more on the RDF side, it would be good to have someone who is more on the SPARQL</span><br>
<span id=x182>… someone from the triple store vendors?</span></p>
<p id=x183 class=summary>OpenLink?</p>
<p id=x184 class="phone s04"><cite>TallTed:</cite> no, my plate is more than full</p>
<p id=x185 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> Vladimir from Ontotext?</p>
<p id=x189 class="phone s03"><cite>olaf:</cite> I don't know him that well, but it does not hurt to ask</p>
<p id=x191 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> zazuko.com</p>
<p id=x192 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> Adrian Gschwend</p>
<p id=x194 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio&gt;</cite> ciao!</p>
<p id=x195 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: let's have our next call 2 weeks from now: 2022-05-20</p>
<p id=x196 class=irc><cite>&lt;gkellogg&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x197 class=irc><cite>&lt;Dominik_T&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x198 class=irc><cite>&lt;olaf&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x199 class=irc><cite>&lt;Doerthe&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x201 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x202 class=irc><cite>&lt;Pierre-Antoine&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x203 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> +0</p>
<p id=r02 class=resolution><strong>Resolution:</strong> let's have our next call 2 weeks from now: 2022-05-20</p>
<p id=x205 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio&gt;</cite> ciao again!</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">add symmetric label + issue template with 'expression_of_opposition'</a></li>
<li><a href="#r02">let's have our next call 2 weeks from now: 2022-05-20</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 142 (Tue Jun  1 16:59:13 2021 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
