<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>RDF-star &ndash; 17 December 2021</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>RDF-star</h1>
<h2>17 December 2021</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://w3c.github.io/rdf-star/Minutes/2021-12-03.html"><img alt="Previous meeting." title="Previous meeting" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/go-previous.png"></a>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-star/2021Dec/0079.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2021/12/17-rdf-star-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
<a href="https://w3c.github.io/rdf-star/Minutes/2022-01-07.html"><img alt="Next meeting." title="Next meeting" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/go-next.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AndyS, Doerthe, fabio_vitali, gatemezing, gkellogg, olaf, pchampin, rivettp, TallTed</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>pchampin</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>AndyS, pchampin</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Announcements and newcomers</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Open actions</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Publishing a final report</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">WG chartering</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Announcements and newcomers</h3>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> out of date implementations removed - rust one updated</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s02"><cite>gkellogg:</cite> changes to test URIs.</p>
<p id=x030 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://twitter.com/MarcelOttoDE/status/1470355460117123074">https://<wbr>twitter.com/<wbr>MarcelOttoDE/<wbr>status/<wbr>1470355460117123074</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Open actions</h3>
<p id=x034 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aaction">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star/<wbr>issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aaction</a></p>
<p id=x035 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues/222">update RDF* paper on arXiv</a></p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> Olaf updated the RDF* paper.<br>
<span id=x038>… action done</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Publishing a final report</h3>
<p id=x046 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> Has a more formal standing as &quot;final&quot;<br>
<span id=x047>… license is slightly different.</span><br>
<span id=x048>… authors will be contacted to agree</span><br>
<span id=x049>… report copied to W3C website</span><br>
<span id=x050>… needs CG RDF-DEV action (DanBri)</span></p>
<p id=x051 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/community/about/process/final/">Final specification agreement</a></p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> 2 decisions : publish as is ; publish as final report</p>
<p id=x056 class=irc><cite>&lt;olaf&gt;</cite> Apologies for being late!</p>
<p id=x057 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: publish a new version of the CG report, as a 'final report'</p>
<p id=x058 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x059 class=irc><cite>&lt;gkellogg&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x060 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio_vitali&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x061 class=irc><cite>&lt;AndyS&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x062 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x063 class=irc><cite>&lt;gatemezing&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x064 class=irc><cite>&lt;Doerthe&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x065 class=irc><cite>&lt;olaf&gt;</cite> +1 (and another +1 from Ora who sends his regrets for today)</p>
<p id=x066 class=irc><cite>&lt;rivettp&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>Resolution:</strong> publish a new version of the CG report, as a 'final report'</p>
<p id=x069 class=irc><cite>&lt;olaf&gt;</cite> Yay!</p>
<p id=x070 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio_vitali&gt;</cite> congratulations!</p>
<p id=x071 class="phone s03"><cite>tallted:</cite> we can still respond with issues and PRs</p>
<p id=x072 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> yes - not immutable</p>
<p id=x076 class="phone s04"><cite>AndyS:</cite> this does apply also to the tests?</p>
<p id=x077 class="phone s02"><cite>gkellogg:</cite> no, the tests are independant</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>WG chartering</h3>
<p id=x082 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter/</a></p>
<p id=x083 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter/<wbr>issues</a></p>
<p id=x084 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/2">RDF/XML</a></p>
<p id=x086 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> RDF/XML - mark as optional work<br>
<span id=x087>… a few people have expressed interest in doing the work.</span></p>
<p id=x091 class="phone s05"><cite>gatemezing:</cite> is there a way to phrase the feedback/interest in RDF/XML.</p>
<p id=x092 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> will have &quot;update that doc if WG has time/volunteers to do the work&quot;</p>
<p id=x094 class="phone s06"><cite>fabio_vitali:</cite> wondering about RDF-star and named graphs</p>
<p id=x097 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> spec allows quoted triples in named graphs<br>
<span id=x098>… abstract syntax covers graphs and datasets</span></p>
<p id=x104 class="phone s04"><cite>AndyS:</cite> star-bit aside, named graphs in RDF are just containers<br>
<span id=x105>… if you want to add a vocabulary, you can</span><br>
<span id=x106>… but that adds assumptions that are not shared by everyone using named graphs</span></p>
<p id=x109 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf11-datasets/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>TR/<wbr>rdf11-datasets/</a></p>
<p id=x113 class="phone s07"><cite>doerthe:</cite> important but rather broad to tackle here the moment (c.f. N3)</p>
<p id=x115 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio_vitali&gt;</cite> Thanks Dörthe</p>
<p id=x117 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> our spec refers to note about RDF datasets semantics from RDF 1.1.<br>
<span id=x118>… let's not make it requirement for the WG</span></p>
<p id=x122 class="phone s04"><cite>AndyS:</cite> WG have a history of not strictly sticking to their charter<br>
<span id=x123>… I'm nervous about mentioning it in the charter; may give too high expectations</span><br>
<span id=x124>… And anyway I would be suprised if it didn't come up</span></p>
<p id=x127 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio_vitali&gt;</cite> I think it is an inteersting + appropriate topic for this specific Wg. I would be surprised if it was proposed by some other ones</p>
<p id=x128 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/3">WG practice</a></p>
<p id=x130 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> F2F meetings<br>
<span id=x131>… reflect the &quot;new normal&quot;</span></p>
<p id=x132 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/pull/4">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter/<wbr>pull/<wbr>4</a></p>
<p id=x134 class=irc><cite>&lt;gatemezing&gt;</cite> I don't understand the concept of &quot;synchronize meeting&quot;</p>
<p id=x136 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/5">guideline for added features</a></p>
<p id=x137 class=irc><cite>&lt;olaf&gt;</cite> Have to leave early today. I wish everyone nice and relaxing holidays!</p>
<p id=x138 class=irc><cite>&lt;gatemezing&gt;</cite> Enjoy olaf !</p>
<p id=x139 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/pull/7">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter/<wbr>pull/<wbr>7</a></p>
<p id=x141 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> CSVW and others</p>
<p id=x142 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/6">CSVW</a></p>
<p id=x148 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> RDFa<br>
<span id=x149>… do not envisage separate WGs for these</span><br>
<span id=x150>… may be a lot of work</span><br>
<span id=x151>… AC and W3C mgt may be concerned</span><br>
<span id=x152>… (advice from IvanH)</span><br>
<span id=x153>… idea: plan for recharting as it becomes clear what docs may be touched.</span></p>
<p id=x158 class=irc><cite>&lt;gatemezing&gt;</cite> The group will probably upgrade the current SemWeb stack  <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semantic_Web_Stack">https://<wbr>en.wikipedia.org/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Semantic_Web_Stack</a></p>
<p id=x160 class="phone s02"><cite>gkellogg:</cite> work on RDFa (is there an active CG?) could be done by WG<br>
<span id=x161>… something for the recharter point?</span></p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>Action:</strong> pchampin to implement Ivan Herman's proposal as described in <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/6#issuecomment-986801681">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter/<wbr>issues/<wbr>6#issuecomment-986801681</a></p>
<p id=x163 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/10">liaisons</a></p>
<p id=x164 class="phone s08"><cite>17:</cite> 00+00:00</p>
<p id=x166 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> Next meeting -- 7th Jan.</p>
<p id=x167 class=irc><cite>&lt;rivettp&gt;</cite> +1 for 7 Jan</p>
<p id=x168 class=irc><cite>&lt;gatemezing&gt;</cite> Thanks all, and thanks the chairs</p>
<p id=x169 class=irc><cite>&lt;AndyS&gt;</cite> Bye!</p>
<p id=x170 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio_vitali&gt;</cite> Ciao! Have a nice end-of-year period!</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">pchampin to implement Ivan Herman's proposal as described in https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter/<wbr>issues/<wbr>6#issuecomment-986801681</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">publish a new version of the CG report, as a 'final report'</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 142 (Tue Jun  1 16:59:13 2021 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
