<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>RDF-star &ndash; 12 November 2021</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>RDF-star</h1>
<h2>12 November 2021</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://w3c.github.io/rdf-star/Minutes/2021-10-29.html"><img alt="Previous meeting." title="Previous meeting" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/go-previous.png"></a>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-star/2021Nov/0000.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2021/11/12-rdf-star-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
<a href="https://w3c.github.io/rdf-star/Minutes/2021-12-03.html"><img alt="Next meeting." title="Next meeting" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/go-next.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AndyS, Doerthe, fabio, gkellogg, ora, pchampin</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>olaf</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>AndyS</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Announcements and newcomers</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Open actions</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Conformance section</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Debunking RDF-star myths in the intro</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Publishing a final report</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">WG chartering</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Announcements and newcomers</h3>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Open actions</h3>
<p id=x027 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aaction">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star/<wbr>issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aaction</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Conformance section</h3>
<p id=x035 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues/3">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star/<wbr>issues/<wbr>3</a></p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>Action:</strong> AndyS to make a PR to address issue #3</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Debunking RDF-star myths in the intro</h3>
<p id=x041 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio&gt;</cite> hello</p>
<p id=x042 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues/64">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star/<wbr>issues/<wbr>64</a></p>
<p id=x043 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues/219">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star/<wbr>issues/<wbr>219</a></p>
<p id=x044 class=summary>&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt; are unique terms in a graph -- so not a straight replacement for LPG (or all refication usages) - &lt;&lt;&gt;&gt; are a building block.</p>
<p id=x045 class=summary>PFPS wants earlier mention of opaquacity..</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s01"><cite>phcampin:</cite> don't want intro to be too long.<br>
<span id=x049>… but should have longer than we currently have.</span></p>
<p id=x050 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> Might it be worth encouraging authors of those now- (possibly always-) erroneous papers to add some sort of note to that effect to (or at least nearby) those papers?</p>
<p id=x051 class=irc><cite>&lt;gkellogg&gt;</cite> +1 to adding such material to the intro.</p>
<p id=x052 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> +1 for adding to the RDF-star intro, for sure</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s02"><cite>pchampin:</cite> can suggest to the authors.<br>
<span id=x056>… some triplestore vendor examples are also misleading.</span></p>
<p id=x058 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> Yes, I'm not suggesting a wall-of-shame, but rather reaching out to the authors directly.</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>Action:</strong> ora to suggest to Olaf and Bryan to amend their paper on arXiv</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>Action:</strong> pchampin to make a PR to address issues #69 and #219</p>
<p id=x062 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio&gt;</cite> &quot;Common misunderstandings about RDF*&quot;</p>
<p id=x063 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio&gt;</cite> It looks more material for a FAQ than a section in the document</p>
<p id=x064 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> Common misperceptions about...</p>
<p id=x065 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> *heh* as IRC hiccups and reveals fabio's &quot;Common misunderstandings&quot; :-)</p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s02"><cite>pchampin:</cite> material is already in the report - we are trying to help readers from jumping to a wrong conclusion basd on old material</p>
<p id=x067 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio&gt;</cite> Excusatio non petita accusation manifesta</p>
<p id=x068 class="phone s03"><cite>fabio:</cite> may be risky to put too early</p>
<p id=x070 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio&gt;</cite> accusatio</p>
<p id=x071 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio&gt;</cite> I have it in Latin, sorry</p>
<p id=x072 class="phone s04"><cite>gkellogg:</cite> support adding clarification text.</p>
<p id=x073 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio&gt;</cite> <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Excusatio_non_petita,_accusatio_manifesta">https://<wbr>en.wikipedia.org/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Excusatio_non_petita,_accusatio_manifesta</a></p>
<p id=x075 class="phone s04"><cite>gkellogg:</cite> balance to be struck regarding negatives and positives.</p>
<p id=x076 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> &quot;Common troublesome misconceptions...&quot; or &quot;Common misperceptions that can lead to failure of interop&quot; or ...</p>
<p id=x077 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> At least flagging that such exist should be in the intro.  Full details may be better placed elsewhere and linked from intro.</p>
<p id=x078 class="phone s02"><cite>pchampin:</cite> will propose text</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Publishing a final report</h3>
<p id=x083 class="phone s02"><cite>pchampin:</cite> these are the only open actions needing work - rest are discussion-ish or &quot;later&quot;</p>
<p id=x086 class="phone s02"><cite>pchampin:</cite> on the path to chartering the WG.<br>
<span id=x087>… publish at a dated URL</span></p>
<p id=x088 class=summary>+1 to final report</p>
<p id=x089 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: after the remaining PRs are merged, defer any new issue to the future WG, and publish a final report</p>
<p id=x090 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x091 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x092 class=irc><cite>&lt;gkellogg&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x093 class=irc><cite>&lt;AndyS&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x094 class=irc><cite>&lt;Doerthe&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x095 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x096 class=irc><cite>&lt;ora&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x097 class=irc><cite>&lt;ora&gt;</cite> sorry</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>Resolution:</strong> after the remaining PRs are merged, defer any new issue to the future WG, and publish a final report</p>
<p id=x100 class="phone s02"><cite>pchampin:</cite> can still update editors draft is necessary.<br>
<span id=x101>… ideally not updating the final report</span></p>
<p id=x102 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> CG Final Report is similar to a NOTE.  Can be updated/replaced whenever a group that has control over it wants.</p>
<p id=x103 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio&gt;</cite> So this is the final meeting of this group?</p>
<p id=x105 class="phone s02"><cite>pchampin:</cite> we need to accept the PRs and vote on the final report.<br>
<span id=x106>… also charter discussion</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>WG chartering</h3>
<p id=x110 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter/<wbr>issues</a></p>
<p id=x111 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/1">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter/<wbr>issues/<wbr>1</a></p>
<p id=x115 class="phone s02"><cite>pchampin:</cite> one or two WGs? touchs on RDF and SPARQL , then maybe split work streams. Closely related anyway so 2 has little advantage.</p>
<p id=x120 class="phone s05"><cite>ora:</cite> multiple WG -- unless there is a clear separation, then one is better.<br>
<span id=x121>… RDF , RDFS were two WG and was a bit confusing.</span><br>
<span id=x122>… bigger WG can have task forces - coordination is the key.</span></p>
<p id=x124 class="phone s02"><cite>pchampin:</cite> one WG.</p>
<p id=x125 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/2">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter/<wbr>issues/<wbr>2</a></p>
<p id=x127 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> should note the current understanding of the group, in at least a few words, when closing these issues</p>
<p id=x128 class="phone s02"><cite>pchampin:</cite> RDF/XML - mixed feelings about whether to include or not.</p>
<p id=x129 class=irc><cite>&lt;gkellogg&gt;</cite> RDFa can technically work on XML, not just HTML.</p>
<p id=x132 class="phone s02"><cite>pchampin:</cite> may be &quot;any XML serialization&quot; so TriX-star would be better approach - includes datasets.<br>
<span id=x133>… addresses the &quot;XML toolchain&quot; even if not update RDF/XML.</span></p>
<p id=x137 class="phone s05"><cite>ora:</cite> RDF/XML ... pass it's sell-by date. (scribe: +1)<br>
<span id=x138>… happy to leave it alone</span></p>
<p id=x143 class="phone s04"><cite>gkellogg:</cite> compatibility issues if reusing existing reification hook.<br>
<span id=x144>… make RDF/XML &quot;archaic&quot;</span><br>
<span id=x145>… trix -- tighten up -- claim is use in stylesheet</span></p>
<p id=x148 class="phone s02"><cite>pchampin:</cite> some perception that RDF-star &quot;is&quot; reification -- it's not.</p>
<p id=x149 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> PROPOSAL: mark the updating of RDF/XML as optional in the draft charter</p>
<p id=x150 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x151 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x152 class=irc><cite>&lt;gkellogg&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x153 class=irc><cite>&lt;AndyS&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x154 class=irc><cite>&lt;Doerthe&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x155 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x156 class=irc><cite>&lt;ora&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r02 class=resolution><strong>Resolution:</strong> mark the updating of RDF/XML as optional in the draft charter</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>Action:</strong> pchampin to mark RDF/XML as optional in the charter</p>
<p id=x160 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/6">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter/<wbr>issues/<wbr>6</a></p>
<p id=x164 class="phone s06"><cite>qkellogg:</cite> note CSV, TSV formats<br>
<span id=x165>… and CSVW</span><br>
<span id=x166>… some uptick in interest in CSVW</span><br>
<span id=x167>… need a way to give option to update</span></p>
<p id=x171 class="phone s07"><cite>AndyS:</cite> can we enumerate the &quot;documents in scope&quot; so if the WG has the energy, then they can be done.<br>
<span id=x172>… (R2RML, SHACL, RDFa, JSON-LD)</span><br>
<span id=x173>… and OWL</span></p>
<p id=x174 class="phone s02"><cite>pchampin:</cite> many possible documents</p>
<p id=x175 class="phone s07"><cite>AndyS:</cite> RIF</p>
<p id=x176 class="phone s02"><cite>pchampin:</cite> will ask team for advice</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>Action:</strong> pchampin to ask in W3C about how broad the charter could be</p>
<p id=x179 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio&gt;</cite> thank you!</p>
<p id=x180 class=irc><cite>&lt;AndyS&gt;</cite> Next meeting: December 3rd due to US Thanksgiving.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">AndyS to make a PR to address issue #3</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">ora to suggest to Olaf and Bryan to amend their paper on arXiv</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">pchampin to make a PR to address issues #69 and #219</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">pchampin to mark RDF/XML as optional in the charter</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">pchampin to ask in W3C about how broad the charter could be</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">after the remaining PRs are merged, defer any new issue to the future WG, and publish a final report</a></li>
<li><a href="#r02">mark the updating of RDF/XML as optional in the draft charter</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 142 (Tue Jun  1 16:59:13 2021 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
