<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>RDF-star &ndash; 08 Apr 2022</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>RDF-star</h1>
<h2>08 Apr 2022</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://w3c.github.io/rdf-star/Minutes/2022-03-25.html"><img alt="Previous meeting." title="Previous meeting" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/go-previous.png"></a>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-star/2022Apr/0000.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/04/08-rdf-star-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
<a href="https://w3c.github.io/rdf-star/Minutes/2022-05-06.html"><img alt="Next meeting." title="Next meeting" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/go-next.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AndyS, Dominik_T, olaf, ora, pchampin</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>Fabio Vitali</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>pchampin</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>olaf, pchampin</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Open actions</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">WG chartering</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Schedule next call</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Open actions</h3>
<p id=x027 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aaction">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star/<wbr>issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aaction</a></p>
<p id=x028 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues/255">RDF-dev calendar</a></p>
<p id=x029 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/677cd671-7ce4-41eb-b839-ce605793e943">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>677cd671-7ce4-41eb-b839-ce605793e943</a></p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> W3C calendar infrastructure used for the agenda now<br>
<span id=x035>… advantage is that it allows us to subscribe to the ICS stream</span><br>
<span id=x036>… future meetings will be added in that calendar</span><br>
<span id=x037>… No answer from danbri about publishing the CG report</span><br>
<span id=x038>… might resort to Twitter</span></p>
<p id=x040 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aaction">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter/<wbr>issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aaction</a></p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> adding an explicit rationale for the (types of) docs included in the charter<br>
<span id=x044>… will be addressed soon</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>WG chartering</h3>
<p id=x051 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> two things about the charter ...<br>
<span id=x052>… first, advanced notice was emailed to the AC and, then, also to the SemWeb mailing lists</span><br>
<span id=x053>… so far no discussion on the list :-/</span></p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s02"><cite>ora:</cite> informed the Amazon AC rep<br>
<span id=x058>… who will vote in favor</span></p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s03"><cite>AndyS:</cite> sentiment on the mailing list is full of CFP</p>
<p id=x064 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> as an aside, the CFP-related issue was discussed<br>
<span id=x065>… there was an earlier discussion that CFPs are accepted on that mailing list</span><br>
<span id=x066>… the list was kept mainly for historical reasons</span><br>
<span id=x067>… logical would have been that the traffic would have moved to the RDF-DEV list</span></p>
<p id=x068 class=irc><cite>&lt;AndyS&gt;</cite> RDF-dev maling list -- <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-dev/">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-rdf-dev/</a></p>
<p id=x070 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> one more proposal to gather expressions of interest or disinterest</p>
<p id=x071 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter/<wbr>issues</a></p>
<p id=x072 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> for which an issue will be created</p>
<p id=x073 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/26">expression of support</a> tag</p>
<p id=x079 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> such a tag was created in the repo for another charter<br>
<span id=x080>… with the purpose to enable organizations to create issues that represent their expressions of support</span><br>
<span id=x081>… that was a good instrument when bringing the charter in front of the AC</span><br>
<span id=x082>… question would be where we ask people for creating their issue</span></p>
<p id=x083 class="phone s02"><cite>ora:</cite> there is a SemWeb group on LinkedIn</p>
<p id=x084 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> right, there have been some lively discussions there</p>
<p id=x086 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> STRAWPOLL: create an &quot;expression of interest&quot; label on the charter repo, and ask people to create &quot;issues&quot; with that label</p>
<p id=x087 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x088 class=irc><cite>&lt;AndyS&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x089 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x090 class=irc><cite>&lt;Dominik_T&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x091 class=irc><cite>&lt;olaf&gt;</cite> +1 good idea!</p>
<p id=x092 class=irc><cite>&lt;ora&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>Resolution:</strong> create an &quot;expression of interest&quot; label on the charter repo, and ask people to create &quot;issues&quot; with that label</p>
<p id=x094 class="phone s03"><cite>AndyS:</cite> expressions of interest happened within six weeks</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>Action:</strong> pchampin to create the issue template for &quot;expression of interest&quot;</p>
<p id=x097 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/27">add text for backward compatibility</a></p>
<p id=x098 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> Andy suggested to mention backwards compatibility explicitly in the charter</p>
<p id=x099 class="phone s04"><cite>TallTed:</cite> Is it expression of interest or ... support?</p>
<p id=x100 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> support</p>
<p id=x101 class="phone s03"><cite>AndyS:</cite> It is only about support for the WG, not for the currently proposed solution</p>
<p id=x102 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> There was a question of versioning</p>
<p id=x103 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> &quot;expression of support for WG&quot; a/k/a &quot;expression of interest in potential of RDF-star&quot; a/k/a ...</p>
<p id=x104 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/24">Versioning</a></p>
<p id=x107 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> the deliverables in the charter are called &quot;... v.1.2&quot;</p>
<p id=x110 class="phone s03"><cite>AndyS:</cite> Another option would be to call it &quot;RDF-star, an extension to RDF 1.1&quot;<br>
<span id=x111>… downside of this idea is that it might exclude taking care of the errata within the WG</span></p>
<p id=x112 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> another downside is that it would allow implementations to stick to RDF 1.1 and still be &quot;up to date&quot;</p>
<p id=x113 class="phone s03"><cite>AndyS:</cite> it would be nice if there was more RDF work</p>
<p id=x115 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> saying that this is an optional extension may be less controversial, but it may also contribute to the fragmentation of the ecosystem</p>
<p id=x121 class="phone s05"><cite>olaf:</cite> I don't see any reason at the moment why it shouldn't be called RDF 1.2<br>
<span id=x122>… if a long discussion started, then we may reconsider</span></p>
<p id=x125 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> question about chairs</p>
<p id=x126 class="phone s02"><cite>ora:</cite> yes, it is okay to put my (Ora's) name as a potential chair</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>Action:</strong> pchampin to add Ora Lassila as one of the expected chairs</p>
<p id=x128 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> last open issue is about the timeline</p>
<p id=x129 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/25">Timeline</a></p>
<p id=x136 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> typical timeline for WGs is 2-4 years<br>
<span id=x137>… for this one, it would make sense to go for the higher end</span><br>
<span id=x138>… because there are a lot of docs to be updated by this WG</span><br>
<span id=x139>… also not sure how the deadlines for the individual deliverables should be set</span><br>
<span id=x140>… all at the end? ...or scattered within the overall timeline?</span></p>
<p id=x142 class="phone s02"><cite>ora:</cite> getting nightmares thinking of 4 years<br>
<span id=x143>… if properly scoped, it may be possible in 2 years</span></p>
<p id=x148 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> nowadays start with more mature input than in the early days<br>
<span id=x149>… so, yes, maybe it's reasonable to schedule it in 2 years</span><br>
<span id=x150>… but also required a lot of man power</span></p>
<p id=x151 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> Durations below 2 years may make sense when associated CG or similar is able to produce something the broader community accepts as near to CR.  I don't think our planned scope will be fully achievable in less than 2 years.  We might target 2 years and state up front that we see potential need for recharter/extension because of fairly broad scope.</p>
<p id=x153 class="phone s02"><cite>ora:</cite> establish an optimistic expectation<br>
<span id=x154>… if we say &quot;4 years&quot;, then it will take 4 years</span></p>
<p id=x155 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> okay, there seems to be some agreement or sentiment that 2 years should be the goal</p>
<p id=x156 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> STRAWPOLL: plan for a 2 years charter, planning of rechartering if necessary</p>
<p id=x157 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x158 class=irc><cite>&lt;olaf&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x159 class=irc><cite>&lt;Dominik_T&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x160 class=irc><cite>&lt;ora&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x161 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r02 class=resolution><strong>Resolution:</strong> plan for a 2 years charter, planing of rechartering if necessary</p>
<p id=x166 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> next question is about setting a deadline for every doc<br>
<span id=x167>… no point in having a granularity smaller than 6 months</span></p>
<p id=x171 class="phone s02"><cite>ora:</cite> uncomfortable with the charter specifying such deadlines<br>
<span id=x172>… because the WG may realize that something comes up</span><br>
<span id=x173>… preferrable to have the charter mention such dates more as suggestions rather than mandatory</span></p>
<p id=x174 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> yes, agree</p>
<p id=x175 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> &quot;Target timeline&quot; is common in charters, tho rarely satisfied in my experience</p>
<p id=x176 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> (&quot;Target timeline&quot; might not be the label that's been used, but it's the meaning.)</p>
<p id=x179 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> when will the next call be?</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Schedule next call</h3>
<p id=x184 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> not possible in 3 weeks because of the Web Conf.<br>
<span id=x185>… weeks before hard as well</span><br>
<span id=x186>… so, proposal is to have the next call in 4 weeks from now</span></p>
<p id=x188 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> PROPOSAL: have our next call on the 6th of May</p>
<p id=x189 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x190 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x191 class=irc><cite>&lt;olaf&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x192 class=irc><cite>&lt;Dominik_T&gt;</cite> +0 (I have a scheduled visit to the doctor, I don't know if I will make it)</p>
<p id=x193 class=irc><cite>&lt;ora&gt;</cite> +0</p>
<p id=r03 class=resolution><strong>Resolution:</strong> have our next call on the 6th of May (unless something unexpected happens in between)</p>
<p id=x197 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> HAPPY 10 YEARS RDF* :)</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">pchampin to create the issue template for &quot;expression of interest&quot;</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">pchampin to add Ora Lassila as one of the expected chairs</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">create an &quot;expression of interest&quot; label on the charter repo, and ask people to create &quot;issues&quot; with that label</a></li>
<li><a href="#r02">plan for a 2 years charter, planing of rechartering if necessary</a></li>
<li><a href="#r03">have our next call on the 6th of May (unless something unexpected happens in between)</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 142 (Tue Jun  1 16:59:13 2021 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
