<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>RDF-star &ndash; 11 February 2022</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>RDF-star</h1>
<h2>11 February 2022</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://w3c.github.io/rdf-star/Minutes/2022-01-21.html"><img alt="Previous meeting." title="Previous meeting" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/go-previous.png"></a>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-star/2022Feb/0026.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/02/11-rdf-star-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
<a href="https://w3c.github.io/rdf-star/Minutes/2022-03-04.html"><img alt="Next meeting." title="Next meeting" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/go-next.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AndyS, doerthe, fabio_vitali, gkellogg, olaf, ora, pchampin, TallTed</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>pchampin</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>olaf, pchampin</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Announcements and newcomers</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Next call</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Open actions</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">WG chartering</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Announcements and newcomers</h3>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> no newcomers<br>
<span id=x035>… blog post has been published</span><br>
<span id=x036>… feedback on the CG mailing list</span><br>
<span id=x037>… additionally, there was a question by Pat Hayes</span><br>
<span id=x038>… who asked for a pointer to the RDF-star semantics</span><br>
<span id=x039>… which means that we may get some feedback in the future from him</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Next call</h3>
<p id=x043 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> how to deal with our biweekly schedule?</p>
<p id=x049 class=irc><cite>&lt;AndyS&gt;</cite> No opinion. No problem with either.</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s02"><cite>olaf:</cite> I don't have a strong feeling. I still have weekly meeting in my agenda, deleting entries when appropriate.</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s03"><cite>ora:</cite> I have a conflict in 2 weeks time.</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> next 2 weeks not convenient<br>
<span id=x055>… most of the work/discussion related to the charter can be done offline</span></p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s04"><cite>gkellogg:</cite> next meeting on March 4, now</p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s05"><cite>william:</cite> that would not work for me</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> using the other weeks is not working for pete rivett</p>
<p id=x059 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: wait 3 weeks until next call, then resume biweekly</p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s06"><cite>TallTed:</cite> I will keep weekly open<br>
<span id=x066>… because the biweekly meetings hopped to other weeks</span><br>
<span id=x067>… therefore, better to keep the weekly meeting open</span></p>
<p id=x068 class="phone s04"><cite>gkellogg:</cite> idea can be to keep it scheduled weekly, with the option to either keep the weekly meeting short or even cancel on demand</p>
<p id=x069 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: wait 3 weeks until next call, then resume to weekly (expecting regular cancellation)</p>
<p id=x070 class=irc><cite>&lt;olaf&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x071 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x072 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x073 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio_vitali&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x074 class=irc><cite>&lt;doerthe&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x075 class=irc><cite>&lt;william&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x076 class=irc><cite>&lt;ora&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x077 class=irc><cite>&lt;AndyS&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x078 class=irc><cite>&lt;gkellogg&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>Resolution:</strong> wait 3 weeks until next call, then resume to weekly (expecting regular cancellation)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Open actions</h3>
<p id=x084 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> quite a bunch of open actions</p>
<p id=x085 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues/247">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star/<wbr>issues/<wbr>247</a></p>
<p id=x088 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> ping DanB about publishing the repÃ¼ort on the CG Web page<br>
<span id=x089>… pinged him again today</span><br>
<span id=x090>… he was/is on vacation</span></p>
<p id=x091 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues/246">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star/<wbr>issues/<wbr>246</a></p>
<p id=x095 class="phone s02"><cite>olaf:</cite> reach out to Cambridge Semantics (Anzo) action</p>
<p id=x096 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> I suggest reviewing issues in &quot;least recently updated&quot; order.  Typically allows closing (or reviving) the most stale.  <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star/<wbr>issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc</a></p>
<p id=x098 class="phone s02"><cite>olaf:</cite> I contacted them but they have not responded yet<br>
<span id=x099>… can send a reminder</span></p>
<p id=x100 class=summary><a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues/240">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star/<wbr>issues/<wbr>240</a></p>
<p id=x104 class="phone s02"><cite>olaf:</cite> we decided to leave this open until we get their report<br>
<span id=x105>… Ontotext promised a report ; Stardog needs to discuss this in the company</span></p>
<p id=x109 class="phone s07"><cite>AndyS:</cite> with the charter coming up, we can send a reminder saying that we are going to do this</p>
<p id=x112 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues/243">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star/<wbr>issues/<wbr>243</a></p>
<p id=x113 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> AWS blog</p>
<p id=x115 class="phone s03"><cite>ora:</cite> working on the blog post, not done yet<br>
<span id=x116>… too many distractions</span></p>
<p id=x117 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues/241">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star/<wbr>issues/<wbr>241</a></p>
<p id=x118 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> Corese</p>
<p id=x120 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> was left open until we have an impl. report<br>
<span id=x121>… which will be coming</span></p>
<p id=x122 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues/245">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star/<wbr>issues/<wbr>245</a></p>
<p id=x123 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> CG blog posts</p>
<p id=x125 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> also more a reminder<br>
<span id=x126>… scope of the blog post was reduced because the post was already big enough</span></p>
<p id=x129 class="phone s07"><cite>AndyS:</cite> there is a new PR<br>
<span id=x130>… it can be merged</span></p>
<p id=x131 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> PR <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/pull/251">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star/<wbr>pull/<wbr>251</a></p>
<p id=x134 class="phone s07"><cite>AndyS:</cite> There are some tests for annotation syntax in SPARQL-star<br>
<span id=x135>… but these have been wrong</span><br>
<span id=x136>… the PR fixes them</span></p>
<p id=x139 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> PR <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/pull/250">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star/<wbr>pull/<wbr>250</a></p>
<p id=x142 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> there was another PR<br>
<span id=x143>… it was merged</span><br>
<span id=x144>… it was about relative links in the report, which ended up broken when the final report was published under a different address</span></p>
<p id=x146 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/6">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter/<wbr>issues/<wbr>6</a></p>
<p id=x147 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> now to open actions on the charter</p>
<p id=x148 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/pull/12">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter/<wbr>pull/<wbr>12</a></p>
<p id=x150 class="phone s04"><cite>gkellogg:</cite> title of the issue is not comprehensive<br>
<span id=x151>… should be about any other related serialization formats</span></p>
<p id=x152 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> made a PR, several weeks ago, approved by gkellogg</p>
<p id=x153 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/2">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter/<wbr>issues/<wbr>2</a></p>
<p id=x154 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/pull/11">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter/<wbr>pull/<wbr>11</a></p>
<p id=x155 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> address RDF/XML conditionnaly</p>
<p id=x158 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> same for this issue about RDF/XML, a PR is available for this one as well<br>
<span id=x159>… idea is to be flexible in the charter about what we do about RDF/XML</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>WG chartering</h3>
<p id=x168 class="phone s07"><cite>AndyS:</cite> Wonder how we can get some tempo going?<br>
<span id=x169>… there is a 7-point list about the chartering, we are currently at step 1 or 2?</span></p>
<p id=x170 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> link to that list?</p>
<p id=x171 class=irc><cite>&lt;AndyS&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter</a></p>
<p id=x173 class="phone s07"><cite>AndyS:</cite> there are some external steps there<br>
<span id=x174>… do we need a complete draft of the charter for them?</span></p>
<p id=x178 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> no<br>
<span id=x179>… the W3C strategy team is aware of this ongoing work on RDF-star</span><br>
<span id=x180>… part of point 3 has been done already</span><br>
<span id=x181>… have to check with Ivan about community input</span></p>
<p id=x185 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> blocking issue has been that there is some boring work on the charter<br>
<span id=x186>… include all the missing docs from the SPARQL WG</span><br>
<span id=x187>… these should be mentioned in the charter because these will need to point to the updated RECs</span><br>
<span id=x188>… it would be efficient if someone could take this action</span></p>
<p id=x189 class="phone s07"><cite>AndyS:</cite> I can take care of it</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>Action:</strong> AndyS to add missing SPARQL documents in the charter proposal</p>
<p id=x191 class="phone s07"><cite>AndyS:</cite> and then we can ping the AC</p>
<p id=x192 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> In the meantime, everyone here, please take a look at the draft, in particular the part about Turtle</p>
<p id=x194 class="phone s07"><cite>AndyS:</cite> better to first email the AC before reaching out to the wider community</p>
<p id=x197 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> next call of the strategy team is next Tuesday<br>
<span id=x198>… notify them in that meeting</span><br>
<span id=x199>… and ensure that it is okay to send to the AC</span></p>
<p id=x202 class="phone s04"><cite>gkellogg:</cite> Did we decide to merge the open PR?</p>
<p id=x204 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> yes<br>
<span id=x205>… will do right after this call</span></p>
<p id=x211 class="phone s07"><cite>AndyS:</cite> having seen all the discussion on the mailing list,<br>
<span id=x212>… wonder if a use case / primer-style doc an early deliverable of the WG?</span><br>
<span id=x213>… not REC track, just a Note</span><br>
<span id=x214>… as a possible way to get these discussions more focused</span></p>
<p id=x216 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> indeed, currently the charter only lists the REC track docs<br>
<span id=x217>… good idea to explicitly list the RDF Primer as an early deliverable</span></p>
<p id=x219 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio_vitali&gt;</cite> good for me</p>
<p id=x220 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> as a way to converge the discussions towards a common goal</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>Action:</strong> pchampin to add an explicit item about RDF primer in the charter</p>
<p id=x224 class=irc><cite>&lt;Zakim&gt;</cite> AndyS, you wanted to ask about another thing</p>
<p id=x226 class="phone s07"><cite>AndyS:</cite> licensing?<br>
<span id=x227>… It is possible to put all specs under a permissive license</span></p>
<p id=x228 class="phone s03"><cite>ora:</cite> forking of specs was a long runing nightmare</p>
<p id=x234 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> the new software and document license as mentioned by the charter is considered as permissive<br>
<span id=x235>… will ask the question at the strategy team meeting</span><br>
<span id=x236>… Question of the chairs is still open.</span><br>
<span id=x237>… not sure what is the common way to contact/attract potential chairs</span></p>
<p id=x240 class="phone s03"><cite>ora:</cite> all WGs in which I was, there was no demoncratic process for choosing the chair<br>
<span id=x241>… the decision came from W3C</span></p>
<p id=x242 class="phone s07"><cite>AndyS:</cite> more effective to approach people in private</p>
<p id=x243 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> question then is, who is in the position to have this discussion?</p>
<p id=x244 class=irc><cite>&lt;fabio_vitali&gt;</cite> one should first have a feeling if there are willing candidates. Then one should have a feeling if there are TWO or more willing candidates. If we have 0, we have a problem. If there are TWO or more, we have a problem. Otherwise, we do not have a problem.</p>
<p id=x245 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> ora you mention yourself as an option</p>
<p id=x246 class="phone s03"><cite>ora:</cite> yes, still on the table but needs to be confirmed internally</p>
<p id=x249 class="phone s04"><cite>gkellogg:</cite> strong preference for having two chairs<br>
<span id=x250>… one chair should come from industry</span><br>
<span id=x251>… to get larger by-in from vendors</span></p>
<p id=x255 class="phone s01"><cite>pchampin:</cite> with ora we have someone from industry<br>
<span id=x256>… which means more flexibility on the second name</span><br>
<span id=x257>… We actively need to work on this question. The RDF-star mailing list is probably a too wide forum to have this discussion</span></p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">AndyS to add missing SPARQL documents in the charter proposal</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">pchampin to add an explicit item about RDF primer in the charter</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">wait 3 weeks until next call, then resume to weekly (expecting regular cancellation)</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 142 (Tue Jun  1 16:59:13 2021 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
