<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>RDF-star &ndash; 10 June 2022</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>RDF-star</h1>
<h2>10 June 2022</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://w3c.github.io/rdf-star/Minutes/2022-05-20.html"><img alt="Previous meeting." title="Previous meeting" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/go-previous.png"></a>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-star/2022Jun/0000.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/06/10-rdf-star-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AndyS, doerthe, gkellogg, olaf, ora, pchampin, TallTed</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>Fabio</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>pchampin</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>gkellogg, pchampin</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Announcements and newcomers</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Open actions</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">WG chartering</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Announcements and newcomers</h3>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>ora:</cite> I was at an NSF Open Knowledge Networks meeting, and RDF-star is getting some buzz.<br>
<span id=x029>… This is NSFs take on building open knowledge graphs for the public sector/government.</span></p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s02"><cite>olaf:</cite> I talked to people doing machine learning at ESWC to put context on edges from which they want to learn.<br>
<span id=x032>… There was a poster paper about access control using RDF-star.</span></p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s01"><cite>ora:</cite> I've had many discussions lately about RDF-star, so people are starting to want to use it.<br>
<span id=x038>… What always comes up is that people don't know how to use it for modeling. We need to address this at some point.</span><br>
<span id=x039>… Best Practices, or &quot;RDF-star schema&quot;</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Open actions</h3>
<p id=x042 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aaction">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star/<wbr>issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aaction</a></p>
<p id=x043 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> rdf-star#247</p>
<p id=x044 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star/issues/247">Action 247 ping DanBri about publishing the final report on the CG page (on pchampin)</a></p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s03"><cite>pchampin:</cite> I had an exchange with danbri, who appologized and that I had privilages, but only the chair does.<br>
<span id=x049>… He suggested I become co-chair. There are precedents for team members to become chairs.</span><br>
<span id=x050>… I think it's on danbri to add me.</span><br>
<span id=x051>… In principle, this would unblock this issue</span></p>
<p id=x052 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aaction">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>rdf-star-wg-charter/<wbr>issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aaction</a></p>
<p id=x053 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> #43</p>
<p id=x054 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/43">Action 43 organize a call with Adrian Gschwend (on hartig) due 27 May 2022</a></p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s03"><cite>pchampin:</cite> This was about contacting Adrian.<br>
<span id=x058>… He is interested, and discussed with colleagues and his company will join W3C so that he can properly chair.</span><br>
<span id=x059>… We'll discuss further in a subsequent adgendum.</span></p>
<p id=x060 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> #42</p>
<p id=x061 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/42">Action 42 come back to Vladimir (on pchampin) due 27 May 2022</a></p>
<p id=x062 class="phone s03"><cite>pchampin:</cite> I met Valadimir last week in Vienna. Onotext is a W3C member and he is quite open to be an editor or chair.</p>
<p id=x063 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> #29</p>
<p id=x064 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/29">Action 29 Add Ora Lassila as one of the expected chair (on pchampin)</a></p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s03"><cite>pchampin:</cite> I raised the point about not only having triple-store vendors heading the WG.<br>
<span id=x067>… Ora has been added, so #29 is done.</span></p>
<p id=x068 class=irc><cite>&lt;ora&gt;</cite> yea!</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>WG chartering</h3>
<p id=x071 class=irc><cite>&lt;ora&gt;</cite> (stepping out for one minute)</p>
<p id=x072 class=summary>We passed the penultimate step with W3C Management, and now needs to go to vote by advisory group.<br>
<span id=x073>… We need to fix a couple of things: We need to agree on list of chairs, and the timeline.</span><br>
<span id=x074>… There were some questions about that from W3M.</span></p>
<p id=x076 class=irc><cite>&lt;ora&gt;</cite> (back)</p>
<p id=x084 class="phone s04"><cite>gkellogg:</cite> there are so many spec, it makes sense to divide out responsibility<br>
<span id=x085>… more chairs can be useful, if they work together well</span><br>
<span id=x086>… chairs should usually not be editors, at least not on the items they are chairing</span></p>
<p id=x092 class="phone s01"><cite>ora:</cite> I'm not too excited about having more than two chairs. If Vladimir wanted to be an editor, that would be great.<br>
<span id=x093>… Do we have a process for deciding who should be chair?</span></p>
<p id=x097 class="phone s03"><cite>pchampin:</cite> The charter doesn't cover this. I'm a bit nervous about taking such a role in deciding this.<br>
<span id=x098>… I asked if it's a problem that it's not complete, which they could live with before submitted.</span><br>
<span id=x099>… I put forward the names on our list.</span><br>
<span id=x100>… If we had no idea, W3M might object.</span></p>
<p id=x104 class="phone s05"><cite>AndyS:</cite> Who the chairs are is up to us. Without that, there's no way to make decisions. Usually W3C comes up with the chairs.<br>
<span id=x105>… In terms of numbers, I think there's a slight downside for having too many chairs. If anyone has two roles (editor and chair), I would tend to keep them separate.</span><br>
<span id=x106>… Eventually, it comes down to who has the time for 2+ years.</span></p>
<p id=x113 class="phone s03"><cite>pchampin:</cite> I agree that there is a lot of work, but this calls for many editors, not many chairs. Having too many chairs can reduce the sense of responsibility.<br>
<span id=x114>… Let's not try to be too formal about this. I'm hearing that two chairs seems to be enough, and let's try to attract as many editors as possible.</span><br>
<span id=x115>… Ora's already in the charter. (still interested).</span><br>
<span id=x116>… We need to pick between Vladimir and Adrien.</span></p>
<p id=x118 class="phone s02"><cite>olaf:</cite> Given that Vladimir has also expressed interest in editing, that would speak in favor of just using Adrian.<br>
<span id=x119>… Also, Adrien is not a triple-store vendor, which is a plus.</span></p>
<p id=x122 class="phone s03"><cite>pchampin:</cite> My understanding was that the role of editor was also interesting.<br>
<span id=x123>… I think Ora should have the final word, as he'll have to work with them.</span></p>
<p id=x124 class="phone s01"><cite>ora:</cite> I don't really know either of them, but it seems Adrien might be most appropriate.</p>
<p id=x126 class="phone s05"><cite>AndyS:</cite> I'd rather it _not_ be a vote.</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>Action:</strong> pchampin to contact Adrian and add him as chair in the charter draft</p>
<p id=x128 class=irc><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Created <a href="https://github.com/w3c/rdf-star-wg-charter/issues/46">action 46 contact Adrian and add him as chair in the charter draft (on ) due 17 Jun 2022</a></p>
<p id=x130 class="phone s03"><cite>pchampin:</cite> Phillipe was a bit more concerned about the deadline of the first deliverable, which he thinks is too optimistic.<br>
<span id=x131>… These specifications are eight years old so will have to go through horizontal review. Given the age of the specs, even with minimal changes, the horizontal review groups may need more time.</span></p>
<p id=x135 class="phone s05"><cite>AndyS:</cite> The SPARQL specs aren't even in ReSpec.</p>
<p id=x136 class="phone s03"><cite>pchampin:</cite> I don't think the RDF versions are in ReSpec either.</p>
<p id=x141 class="phone s05"><cite>AndyS:</cite> There's a lot of material. While it should be well-laid out, we need to plan on work time.<br>
<span id=x142>… We'll need a lot of full and frank discussion about the meaning of RDF-star, which will be time-consuming.</span><br>
<span id=x143>… In the past, I know that people spent time on WGs that were overwhelmed.</span></p>
<p id=x145 class="phone s01"><cite>ora:</cite> 12 months sets an expectation. If we say 2 years, it will take 2 years. Even if people think it's unrealistic, I prefer to set an aggressive expectation.<br>
<span id=x146>… I saw that CSS FlexBox has been worked on for twelve years and has never gone to REC.</span></p>
<p id=x147 class="phone s06"><cite>TallTed:</cite> One of the reason of setting target dates is to avoid this very problem.</p>
<p id=x150 class="phone s01"><cite>ora:</cite> CSS is hugely successful, but has taken forever.<br>
<span id=x151>… Actually Thirteen years</span></p>
<p id=x155 class="phone s04"><cite>gkellogg:</cite> a lot of work happened in the JSON-LD CG before the WG started<br>
<span id=x156>… and still there was long discussions in the WG, even though the people involved were mostly the same</span><br>
<span id=x157>… Things take longer than expected.</span></p>
<p id=x161 class="phone s03"><cite>pchampin:</cite> I don't have a strong opinion. Looking back, the documents with a 12-month deadline are Concepts and Abstract Syntax. THen there's N-Quads, N-Triples, Turtle and Trig.<br>
<span id=x162>… RDF Schema 1.2 is at 18 months.</span><br>
<span id=x163>… The Turtle family should not take that long. It's basically what's in the 2014 paper and seem to be low-hanging fruit.</span></p>
<p id=x166 class="phone s02"><cite>olaf:</cite> My worry is that people might not accept the Abstract Concepts REC before corresponding Semantics is available.</p>
<p id=x169 class="phone s03"><cite>pchampin:</cite> RDF docs range from 12-18 months, and SPARQL from 18-24, because SPARQL comes after RDF.<br>
<span id=x170>… All docs for which we have content come earlier, and the others come later.</span><br>
<span id=x171>… Maybe we should have all RDF in 18 months, and all SPARQL does in 24. This could address inter-dependencies.</span></p>
<p id=x172 class="phone s01"><cite>ora:</cite> I think that's fine, but I'd prefer it to be more aggressive.</p>
<p id=x173 class="phone s03"><cite>pchampin:</cite> For some people the Semantics come first, for other's Abstract Syntax. Those will likely lead to the most discussion.</p>
<p id=x175 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> proposed: move all RDF specs to 18 month, and all SPARQL specs to 24 months</p>
<p id=x176 class=irc><cite>&lt;gkellogg&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x177 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x178 class=irc><cite>&lt;ora&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x180 class=irc><cite>&lt;doerthe&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x181 class=irc><cite>&lt;AndyS&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x182 class=irc><cite>&lt;olaf&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x183 class="phone s01"><cite>ora:</cite> All these timelines are speculative anyway.</p>
<p id=x184 class=irc><cite>&lt;TallTed&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>Resolution:</strong> move all RDF specs to 18 month, and all SPARQL specs to 24 months</p>
<p id=x190 class="phone s03"><cite>pchampin:</cite> It is speculative, but we don't want the AC to accept or reject due to this.<br>
<span id=x191>… The start date will be decided once accepted, and the other stuff in yellow will be resolved later.</span><br>
<span id=x192>… We need a timeline for FPWD.</span></p>
<p id=x193 class="phone s01"><cite>ora:</cite> Given that we have the documents we can set an aggressive timeline for FPWD. Perhaps 6 months.</p>
<p id=x195 class="phone s05"><cite>AndyS:</cite> If the SPARQL specs are 24 months, there is no time for review.</p>
<p id=x196 class="phone s03"><cite>pchampin:</cite> It depends on what completion means, I took that to mean REC.</p>
<p id=x198 class="phone s03"><cite>pchampin:</cite> 6 months for RDF docs, 12 months for SPARQL?<br>
<span id=x199>… We don't have the SPARQL timeline totally sequenced behind RDF.</span></p>
<p id=x200 class="phone s05"><cite>AndyS:</cite> I think it could be over-engineered.</p>
<p id=x201 class="phone s03"><cite>pchampin:</cite> Phillipe noted that the timeline is pretty arbitrary. It needs to be complete, or removed.</p>
<p id=x202 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> proposed: FPWD after 6 months for RDF docs, 12 months for SPARQL</p>
<p id=x203 class=irc><cite>&lt;pchampin&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x204 class=irc><cite>&lt;gkellogg&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x205 class=irc><cite>&lt;AndyS&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x206 class="phone s03"><cite>pchampin:</cite> I plan to send this to the AC next week, and they have one month to vote.</p>
<p id=x209 class="phone s01"><cite>ora:</cite> The sooner the AC gets this the better. We've worked on this for some time already.</p>
<p id=x210 class="phone s03"><cite>pchampin:</cite> I will make a PR with a tentative timeline for FPWD and we can iterate. I'll send to AC next week.</p>
<p id=x211 class="phone s05"><cite>AndyS:</cite> We only need to meet if something comes up.</p>
<p id=x212 class=irc><cite>&lt;olaf&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x213 class="phone s05"><cite>AndyS:</cite> I'll send a tentative agenda for the first Friday after the vote.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">pchampin to contact Adrian and add him as chair in the charter draft</a></li>
</ol>
</div>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">move all RDF specs to 18 month, and all SPARQL specs to 24 months</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 142 (Tue Jun  1 16:59:13 2021 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
